Channel name: grimoirelab-gsoc
Participants: sduenas, Rashmi K A, mafesan, vchrombie, Eva Mill치n, Slackbot
________________________________________________________________________________________________
19:00:11 - Rashmi K A: Hello hello :wave: !
19:00:21 - Slackbot: Reminder: start weekly standup.
19:00:27 - mafesan: Hi there! :wave:
19:01:00 - Rashmi K A: Hi!! Let me ping venu and ask if he is joining
19:02:24 - vchrombie: Hello Everyone :wave:
19:03:32 - vchrombie: @mafesan do you know if Eva and Santi are around?
19:04:25 - mafesan: No idea, let me ping them
19:05:00 - vchrombie: that's fine, they should be joining soon I guess
maybe we can start
19:05:24 - vchrombie: WDYT @Rashmi K A ?
19:05:56 - Rashmi K A: yes am good to start
19:06:00 - Eva Mill치n: hi everyone!
19:06:26 - Rashmi K A: let me start with my updates
19:06:34 - sduenas: hi!
19:07:09 - Rashmi K A: I put up my biweekly post at <#CV03ATA05|general>
19:08:07 - Rashmi K A: I also raised my first PR :bangbang:
19:08:35 - Rashmi K A: Its here -&gt; <https://github.com/chaoss/grimoirelab-sortinghat/pull/552>. I think @sduenas suggested some changes, am working on them
19:08:45 - Rashmi K A: I had a question about this PR though
19:09:11 - sduenas: shoot!
19:09:14 - Rashmi K A: Santiago - you mentioned that the merge commit is not needed, how do I fix that?
19:09:27 - Rashmi K A: I think I have a few commits after that
19:09:55 - sduenas: you merged the changes you had
19:10:06 - sduenas: what you need to do is a git rebase -i instead
19:10:19 - sduenas: and select the commits you want to be part of your PR
19:10:33 - sduenas: you can look for more information about git rebase on the internet
19:10:43 - sduenas: maybe Venu can help you if you need it
19:10:46 - vchrombie: yup, rebase should solve the issue
19:10:53 - Rashmi K A: gotcha, but then the pr says merge conflicts are present
19:11:19 - Rashmi K A: I am ok with rebasing, shouldnt be any trouble. I think am a bit confused because it says this PR cannot be automatically merged
19:11:21 - sduenas: then you need to fix the conflicts
19:11:57 - vchrombie: first we need to rebase the commits
and then fix the merge conflicts manually
19:12:04 - sduenas: normally they are because you touched a file that it's already modified on muggle
19:12:07 - Rashmi K A: OH! Gotcha
19:13:55 - Rashmi K A: Also
19:15:12 - Rashmi K A: Shall I rename group to team in models.py
19:15:17 - Rashmi K A: And call the table teams?
19:15:22 - Rashmi K A: shall I rename Group -&gt; Team in models?
19:15:23 - Rashmi K A: And have the table name as `teams`?
19:15:26 - Rashmi K A: I haven't made that change yet because I wanted to confirm
19:15:32 - sduenas: yes, let's do that
19:15:32 - Rashmi K A: Oops, double send
19:15:55 - Rashmi K A: Great, is everything else ok in the PR
19:16:29 - Rashmi K A: I also wanted to check with you how you generally lint files
19:17:04 - Rashmi K A: Or is it a IDE config for style formats that you have in place?
19:17:42 - sduenas: I'm afraid I need to go for a bit, maybe @vchrombie and @mafesan can help you with that
19:18:03 - Rashmi K A: Sure, I don't have anything big for today's agenda
19:18:08 - Rashmi K A: See ya!
19:18:36 - Rashmi K A: @vchrombie / @mafesan  any thoughts on this^?
19:19:06 - mafesan: Sure! Thank you @sduenas!
19:19:19 - mafesan: Well, I'm using PyCharm
19:19:56 - mafesan: and I run `flake8`  to check the style warnings
19:20:27 - mafesan: Is that what you were asking about @Rashmi K A?
19:20:41 - Rashmi K A: ah!! ok, my PyCharm puts out these squiggly yellow lines everytime it has a style suggestion but its very easy to miss
19:20:46 - Rashmi K A: yes thats what I was asking about!
19:21:24 - mafesan: I don't know which operating system you are using, but I recommend you to try `flake8`
19:21:49 - vchrombie: if you have installed sortinghat (muggle) using poetry
19:22:02 - vchrombie: `flake8` should be already installed
19:22:22 - Rashmi K A: poetry run flake8
19:22:26 - Rashmi K A: ?
19:22:37 - vchrombie: yup, you can run it using that command
19:23:34 - vchrombie: we added `flake8` step in the CI too
even if you miss, it will be caught here :smile:
<https://github.com/chaoss/grimoirelab-sortinghat/blob/muggle/.github/workflows/tests.yml#L54>
19:24:07 - mafesan: I run it from the terminal, like:
`$ flake8 &lt;directory&gt;`
For instance, from `grimoirelab-sortinghat` folder, I execute:
```$ flake8 .```
One example of the output:
```./config/settings/devel.py:87:1: E265 block comment should start with '# '
./config/settings/devel.py:108:1: W391 blank line at end of file```
19:24:43 - mafesan: `87:1`  references the line number and the column number, respectively
19:24:51 - Rashmi K A: thank you!!! This helps
19:25:10 - Rashmi K A: I think I had a loot of styling issues in the first PR and Santiago had to check through the files
19:25:41 - vchrombie: we have some flake8 configurations also
<https://github.com/chaoss/grimoirelab-sortinghat/blob/muggle/setup.cfg>
they will be automatically applied within the repo, so you need not worry about it
19:26:47 - Rashmi K A: ok :+1:  got it
19:27:04 - mafesan: Yup, thank you @vchrombie!
@Rashmi K A, this configuration allow us to ignore some files and folders (I think we can ignore some warnings too)
19:27:18 - Rashmi K A: I ll take a look at this
19:27:30 - Rashmi K A: Hopefully, my next PR isn't dreadful
19:28:41 - mafesan: Keep it up! I saw the PR and I think you made a big progress :rocket:
19:30:17 - Rashmi K A: Another thing I wanted to discuss was timelines - I think we spent some additional time discussing implementation details and I am trying to match the initial proposal timeline but we are lagging behind by a week. I should have started with GraphQL implementations now. Any thoughts on this?
19:30:27 - mafesan: About the conflicts merging and rebasing the changes... have patience and first back-up all the files you have modified if you are not sure about the changes Git is applying
19:31:02 - Rashmi K A: Sure, I'll try that. Working with Git has been an ongoing process of learning new things
19:33:54 - vchrombie: rebasing, merge conflicts; all these seem to be nightmares until you solve them once
so you need not worry about it
19:34:42 - Rashmi K A: gotcha :slightly_smiling_face: Thanks!
19:34:49 - Rashmi K A: Any thoughts on this?
19:37:15 - mafesan: @Rashmi K A I think you made an initial timeline proposal including a period for developing the tests, but we commented that tests should be integrated with each change
19:37:31 - Rashmi K A: yeah
19:38:06 - mafesan: I don't remember if you adapted that timeline after our conversation, but I think that period could be distributed among all the features you develop
19:39:03 - mafesan: Also, there are some issues you are having (like style comments and Git conflicts) that once you solve them once, it will be way more easier and faster to solve for the next features
19:39:58 - Rashmi K A: yeah, thats true.
19:40:25 - Rashmi K A: I ll edit the timelines in that doc, to incorporate the tests
19:41:33 - Rashmi K A: With this change, I will have to rename all the methods and model instances we currently have from using the word 'group' to 'team'. Once I am done with that, can I reach out to one of you to help me do the rebasing and merging?
19:43:42 - vchrombie: Yes, I can help you with it. Please let me know when you are done.
19:44:54 - Rashmi K A: sure :slightly_smiling_face:
19:44:55 - Rashmi K A: thank you!
19:45:03 - Rashmi K A: I dont have anything else for today
19:46:05 - vchrombie: Thanks @Rashmi K A
19:46:54 - vchrombie: I too don't have anything more to discuss
19:47:21 - vchrombie: @mafesan @Eva Mill치n if you can confirm, we can close the meeting early today
WDYT?
19:48:05 - mafesan: I don't have anything else to discuss either!
19:48:47 - Eva Mill치n: yes, I think we can end the meeting
19:49:07 - Rashmi K A: thank you everyone :slightly_smiling_face: see you next weekK!
19:49:35 - vchrombie: See you all next week, bye! :wave:
19:49:38 - mafesan: Thank you all! Have a nice week!
19:53:43 - sduenas: see you! sorry I had to leave
20:24:14 - Rashmi K A: <!here>  Quick question:  We have a unique constraint set up such that
```unique_together=(name,organization,)```
for Teams model. In the code for adding Teams, we need to make sure that we allow teams that aren't linked to any organizations to be added as well. This means that those team objects have organization=NULL.

When I create two teams with same name and organization=NULL however, it doesnt raise any error. I have added a `validate_unique` function that checks whether another object with same name and org=NULL exists and raise a ValidationError if so, but I wanted to check if you guys have a better idea on how to handle this?  Heres the discussion thread: <https://github.com/chaoss/grimoirelab-sortinghat/pull/552#discussion_r660380663>
20:51:58 - sduenas: that's something related with sql / mariadb but I don't know if it's fixed yet or not
20:52:57 - sduenas: if you can do some research, that will be very nice
22:43:00 - Rashmi K A: got it, I just wanted to check with y'all if you had any suggestions from your experience before researching
22:43:56 - Rashmi K A: I am also midway through the graphql layer coding. Shall I raise a different PR for that and research this on the side? I dont want the PR opening/closing to be sequential for the fear of lagging behind.
11:53:48 - sduenas: you can upload a different PR if you want
