Channel name: grimoirelab-gsoc
Participants: sduenas, Rashmi K A, mafesan, vchrombie, Eva Millán, Slackbot
________________________________________________________________________________________________
19:00:02 - Slackbot: Reminder: start weekly standup.
19:00:42 - Rashmi K A: hello everyone :slightly_smiling_face:
19:01:10 - vchrombie: Hello Rashmi, how are you doing?
19:01:20 - Eva Millán: hi everyone!
19:01:41 - Rashmi K A: am good, how are you all?
19:02:08 - Rashmi K A: am super excited this week because I actually started coding some parts of the project :exclamation:
19:03:21 - vchrombie: That's great news!
19:03:40 - vchrombie: let me see if santi and mafesan are joining today
19:03:56 - vchrombie: we can start the meeting in 5 minutes
19:04:01 - Rashmi K A: sure!
19:04:19 - mafesan: Hi everyone!
19:04:32 - mafesan: Sorry for the delay
19:05:23 - vchrombie: no problem @mafesan
you are almost on the right time
19:08:09 - vchrombie: I think Santi is not around, maybe we can start the meeting
We can share the logs later for him to read.
19:08:11 - vchrombie: WDYT?
19:08:38 - mafesan: Yes, I think we can start
19:08:43 - Rashmi K A: works for me
19:09:10 - Rashmi K A: Shall I start with my update?
19:09:30 - mafesan: Yes, please!
19:10:39 - Rashmi K A: Over the last one week, I have been working on <https://github.com/chaoss/grimoirelab-sortinghat/issues/548>. We finalized how to handle Organizational hierarchies last Monday so I have started the implementation. This issue is to add a Group model and add internal methods in db.py and api.py.
19:11:14 - Rashmi K A: I have been able to make good headway on this one, am working on the tests, I am planning to raise a PR by midweek!
19:11:40 - Rashmi K A: I do have a couple of questions on this one though
19:12:18 - Rashmi K A: The first is around the table name. In our code, I see that the table name is the same as the Model name for most of the models, except a few models that hold relations like domains_organizations and so on
19:12:50 - Rashmi K A: `Group` is our new model but we cannot create a table called group, for its a keyword in sql. I have named it `orggroups` for now
19:12:54 - Rashmi K A: any thoughts on this?
19:13:03 - mafesan: :thinking_face:
19:13:51 - mafesan: Have you tried doing so by creating the model from Django and then creating a migration?
19:15:01 - Rashmi K A: ah! I forgot to mention clearly - to be more clear, I could create a table called group/groups via our code. But if for any reason you want to access your mysql directly and run queries on the table, mysql's cli errors out
19:15:37 - Rashmi K A: I was trying to run `select * from groups` to check if a new group was inserted in my local mysql, but it kept erroring out
19:16:44 - mafesan: I think you can overcome that by using `[]`
19:16:54 - mafesan: like:
```select * from [groups]```
19:17:46 - Rashmi K A: oh! I did not realize that :woman-facepalming: sorry! I'll check this out^ and name the table `groups`
19:18:24 - Rashmi K A: it didnt cross my mind to even google it :neutral_face:
19:19:18 - mafesan: if that doesn't work, I would try surrounding `groups` using `'groups'`, `"groups"` or ``groups``
19:20:06 - mafesan: No worries! I remember to find a similar problem with a keyword and it was a headache :sweat_smile:
19:20:27 - Rashmi K A: alright!! I'll try that!
19:20:57 - Rashmi K A: Also, I went over the contributing guidelines for CHAOSS in general but is there anything specific you want me to do when I raise a PR for muggle branch in sortinghat?
19:21:38 - vchrombie: there is the sign-off you need to check
19:21:57 - vchrombie: you need to simply add `-s`  during committing
19:21:59 - mafesan: I would say the most important guidelines are:
• To sign the commit (`git commit -s`)
• To provide a meaningful commit message (check the link I posted some weeks ago)
19:22:57 - mafesan: Here is the link, just in case: <https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/>
19:23:13 - Rashmi K A: gotcha! I went over that article, it was really helpful :slightly_smiling_face:
19:23:26 - mafesan: ok, great!
19:24:46 - Rashmi K A: I do have a question on the next steps - Once these internal methods to handle Groups data are in place, should I start with adding methods for Groups to the GraphQL layer or to the sortinghat-cli
19:25:33 - Rashmi K A: In my proposal, I had put GraphQL first but I wanted to check with you first.
19:25:59 - mafesan: I would say you should go for the GraphQL methods (mutations and queries) first
19:26:32 - mafesan: Yes, I think that makes sense, but maybe I am missing something (please @sduenas, correct me if i'm wrong here)
19:28:12 - Rashmi K A: alright, I ll start with a mutation for adding and a query for finding, does that work?
19:28:47 - Rashmi K A: I think we ll need graphQL anyway for the UI changes so might as well start with that
19:28:53 - vchrombie: +1 to @mafesan point and I think Santi is not here, so maybe we can confirm it once again on the issue through a comment
19:29:56 - Rashmi K A: sure, right after I put in a PR, I ll add that comment as well. Depending on whichever one we plan on starting with, I will create a new issue to track the task
19:31:01 - Rashmi K A: I dont think I have anything else from my side
19:31:48 - Rashmi K A: oh one last thing
19:32:00 - Rashmi K A: I dont have access to the repo so I am not able to assign the issues to myself
19:33:03 - mafesan: Sorry, I don't know what repo you are talking about :sweat_smile:
19:33:15 - Rashmi K A: sortinghat -*<https://github.com/chaoss/grimoirelab-sortinghat/issues/548| Create a Groups model to handle organizational hierarchies>*
19:34:22 - mafesan: oh, I didn't know you needed access to assign yourself an issue :thinking_face:
19:34:48 - mafesan: I can assign you to that issue if you want
19:35:33 - Rashmi K A: yeah, it doesnt show any gear icon or anything to add myself
19:35:33 - Rashmi K A: yes please :slightly_smiling_face:
19:35:55 - Rashmi K A: got it! thank you :slightly_smiling_face:
19:37:07 - vchrombie: I want to add a point to this
19:38:03 - vchrombie: You might need to add a changelog entry along with the PR
19:38:52 - vchrombie: You can check <https://github.com/Bitergia/release-tools|Bitergia/release-tools>
19:40:01 - vchrombie: We decided to make it mandatory as we are going to use release-tools for generating releases
19:40:22 - Rashmi K A: I ll check that, although I dont remember seeing a CHANGELOG.md for the repo
19:40:29 - Rashmi K A: might have missed it
19:40:48 - vchrombie: for sortinghat, we would start once there is a public release (this should be soon, maybe this week I'm not sure)
19:41:31 - mafesan: Oh, right! Thank you for that point @vchrombie
19:42:07 - Rashmi K A: so, if my first PR is before that, I can skip it for this time?
19:42:27 - vchrombie: I'm not sure, they might be reviewed now but merged later :smile:
19:43:02 - vchrombie: I mean, merged after the public release
19:44:12 - vchrombie: I want to hear Santi's opinion on this
since we are adding an additional functionality to sortinghat, I think it is a great way to start using release notes
19:44:45 - Rashmi K A: ah, I ll wait on this one then. I can check out the link meanwhile just to know what needs to be done
19:45:27 - Rashmi K A: or I can ping here when am ready to make a PR if you want me to add change notes
19:45:59 - vchrombie: You need to <https://github.com/Bitergia/release-tools#installation|install> the tool and use the <https://github.com/Bitergia/release-tools#changelog|changelog> script to create a changelog entry
19:46:39 - Rashmi K A: alright, I ll check that
19:46:59 - vchrombie: You can know more about it from here
<https://github.com/chaoss/grimoirelab-perceval/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md>
19:48:27 - vchrombie: Please let us know if you have any doubts regarding release-tools and changelog entries
19:48:56 - Rashmi K A: I ll maybe go through it and check back with you
19:49:10 - Rashmi K A: a totally unrelated question but are you guys planning to make this changelog script into a pre-PR hook so its mandatory for every PR
19:49:40 - vchrombie: umm, sounds good but it is not mandatory to all the PRs
19:49:55 - Rashmi K A: ah!!
19:50:24 - vchrombie: so I think it might not be a good idea
19:50:29 - vchrombie: ```What warrants a changelog entry

Changelog entries are required for:

    Code changes that directly affects the GrimoireLab users.
    Bug fixes.
    New updates.
    Performance improvements.

Changelog entries are not required for

    Docs-only (e.g., README.md) changes.
    Developer-facing change (e.g., test suite changes).
    Code refactoring.```
19:52:20 - Rashmi K A: hmm, just asking because we had a similar scenario at Intuit where our changelog script triggered everytime our PR contained `feat`: `fix`: and not `docs` or `tests`
19:52:48 - Rashmi K A: but I dont know how we raise PRs here, just thought I ll point it out :slightly_smiling_face:
19:53:53 - vchrombie: also, I have one last thing
19:54:21 - vchrombie: @Rashmi K A did you get time to write a blog post since it is almost close to 2 weeks?
19:54:35 - sduenas: Hi, sorry for being late. It'll be great if we start writting changelog entries when need it
19:54:36 - vchrombie: I think we have decided to have a bi-weekly post right
19:54:54 - Rashmi K A: YES! I have a draft on medium about looking at how to store hierarchical data
19:55:12 - Rashmi K A: I completely forgot to mention that, good thing you asked
19:55:42 - Rashmi K A: do you guys have a place you typically want to post articles in or is medium ok?
19:57:14 - vchrombie: No problem Santi :smile:
Yes, we can have changelog entries from now. Thanks for replying.
19:57:52 - vchrombie: I think medium is fine :ok_hand:
19:58:07 - Rashmi K A: gotcha, I ll post and share :party_face:
19:58:42 - vchrombie: please share the link in the mailing list as well so that the community members can have a look at it
19:58:58 - Rashmi K A: sure :slightly_smiling_face:
19:59:55 - vchrombie: I don't have anything to discuss about, and also it is close to the end time
20:00:04 - Rashmi K A: am good too :slightly_smiling_face:
20:00:20 - vchrombie: Do you have anything more to discuss?
@sduenas @mafesan @Eva Millán
20:00:27 - vchrombie: else we can close the meeting for today
20:00:59 - mafesan: Not from my side!
20:01:13 - Eva Millán: not from my side either
20:02:36 - sduenas: Just one comment, don't use `groups` or `group` as the name of the table. Even if it's possible to run queries using that syntax, it's better if we don't do it because it's something people will forget and the queries will fail, at least at first.
20:03:07 - Rashmi K A: ah :thinking_face:
20:03:14 - Rashmi K A: `orggroups`?
20:03:54 - sduenas: org_groups better
20:06:04 - Rashmi K A: okay :slightly_smiling_face:
20:06:10 - Rashmi K A: I ll do that
20:06:44 - Rashmi K A: sorry for the delay in replying, my internet seems to not like me
20:07:59 - vchrombie: alright then
@sduenas do you think we can close the meeting for today?
20:08:07 - sduenas: sure, let's close it!
20:08:31 - vchrombie: thanks everyone for attending, see you again next week! :wave: